CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, before:

# Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct

## Our Pledge

We as members, contributors, and leaders pledge to make participation in our
community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body
size, visible or invisible disability, ethnicity, sex characteristics, gender
identity and expression, level of experience, education, socio-economic status,
nationality, personal appearance, race, caste, color, religion, or sexual
identity and orientation.

We pledge to act and interact in ways that contribute to an open, welcoming,
diverse, inclusive, and healthy community.

## Our Standards

Examples of behavior that contributes to a positive environment for our
community include:

* Demonstrating empathy and kindness toward other people
* Being respectful of differing opinions, viewpoints, and experiences
* Giving and gracefully accepting constructive feedback
* Accepting responsibility and apologizing to those affected by our mistakes,
  and learning from the experience
* Focusing on what is best not just for us as individuals, but for the overall
  community

Examples of unacceptable behavior include:

* The use of sexualized language or imagery, and sexual attention or advances of
  any kind
* Trolling, insulting or derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks
* Public or private harassment
* Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or email address,
  without their explicit permission
* Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a
  professional setting

## Enforcement Responsibilities

Community leaders are responsible for clarifying and enforcing our standards of
acceptable behavior and will take appropriate and fair corrective action in
response to any behavior that they deem inappropriate, threatening, offensive,
or harmful.

Community leaders have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or reject
comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions that are
not aligned to this Code of Conduct, and will communicate reasons for moderation
decisions when appropriate.

## Scope

This Code of Conduct applies within all community spaces, and also applies when
an individual is officially representing the community in public spaces.
Examples of representing our community include using an official email address,
posting via an official social media account, or acting as an appointed
representative at an online or offline event.

## Enforcement

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be
reported to the community leaders responsible for enforcement at
[INSERT CONTACT METHOD].
All complaints will be reviewed and investigated promptly and fairly.

All community leaders are obligated to respect the privacy and security of the
reporter of any incident.

## Enforcement Guidelines

Community leaders will follow these Community Impact Guidelines in determining
the consequences for any action they deem in violation of this Code of Conduct:

### 1. Correction

**Community Impact**: Use of inappropriate language or other behavior deemed
unprofessional or unwelcome in the community.

**Consequence**: A private, written warning from community leaders, providing
clarity around the nature of the violation and an explanation of why the
behavior was inappropriate. A public apology may be requested.

### 2. Warning

**Community Impact**: A violation through a single incident or series of
actions.

**Consequence**: A warning with consequences for continued behavior. No
interaction with the people involved, including unsolicited interaction with
those enforcing the Code of Conduct, for a specified period of time. This
includes avoiding interactions in community spaces as well as external channels
like social media. Violating these terms may lead to a temporary or permanent
ban.

### 3. Temporary Ban

**Community Impact**: A serious violation of community standards, including
sustained inappropriate behavior.

**Consequence**: A temporary ban from any sort of interaction or public
communication with the community for a specified period of time. No public or
private interaction with the people involved, including unsolicited interaction
with those enforcing the Code of Conduct, is allowed during this period.
Violating these terms may lead to a permanent ban.

### 4. Permanent Ban

**Community Impact**: Demonstrating a pattern of violation of community
standards, including sustained inappropriate behavior, harassment of an
individual, or aggression toward or disparagement of classes of individuals.

**Consequence**: A permanent ban from any sort of public interaction within the
community.

## Attribution

This Code of Conduct is adapted from the [Contributor Covenant][homepage],
version 2.1, available at
[https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/2/1/code_of_conduct.html][v2.1].

Community Impact Guidelines were inspired by
[Mozilla's code of conduct enforcement ladder][Mozilla CoC].

For answers to common questions about this code of conduct, see the FAQ at
[https://www.contributor-covenant.org/faq][FAQ]. Translations are available at
[https://www.contributor-covenant.org/translations][translations].

[homepage]: https://www.contributor-covenant.org
[v2.1]: https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/2/1/code_of_conduct.html
[Mozilla CoC]: https://github.com/mozilla/diversity
[FAQ]: https://www.contributor-covenant.org/faq
[translations]: https://www.contributor-covenant.org/translations

Commit message:

update with blockchain specific language

CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, after:

# Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct

## Our Pledge

We as members, contributors, and leaders pledge to make participation in our
community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body
size, visible or invisible disability, ethnicity, sex characteristics, gender
identity and expression, level of experience, education, socio-economic status,
nationality, personal appearance, race, caste, color, religion, or sexual
identity and orientation.

We pledge to act and interact in ways that contribute to an open, welcoming,
diverse, inclusive, and healthy community.

## Our Standards

Examples of behavior that contributes to a positive environment for our
community include:

* Demonstrating empathy and kindness toward other people
* Being respectful of differing opinions, viewpoints, and experiences
* Giving and gracefully accepting constructive feedback
* Accepting responsibility and apologizing to those affected by our mistakes,
  and learning from the experience
* Focusing on what is best not just for us as individuals, but for the overall
  community

Examples of unacceptable behavior include:

* The use of sexualized language or imagery, and sexual attention or advances of
  any kind
* Trolling, insulting or derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks
* Public or private harassment
* Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or email address,
  without their explicit permission
* Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a
  professional setting

## Enforcement Responsibilities

Designated project maintainers and a moderation team (collectively "the enforcers") are responsible for clarifying and enforcing our standards of acceptable behavior. They will take appropriate and fair corrective action in response to any behavior that they deem inappropriate, threatening, offensive, or harmful within the community spaces defined in this Code of Conduct.

The enforcers have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions on project-managed platforms that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct. They will communicate reasons for moderation decisions when appropriate. This Code of Conduct governs behavior within our community spaces; it does not extend to governing on-chain interactions which are subject to the rules of the protocol itself.

## Scope

This Code of Conduct applies within all project-managed community spaces, including but not limited to our GitHub repositories, official Discord server, community forums, Telegram groups, and during project-related events. It also applies when an individual is officially representing the community in public spaces. Examples of representing our community include using an official project email address, posting via an official social media account, or acting as an appointed representative at an online or offline event.

## Enforcement

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be
reported to the enforcers (as defined in "Enforcement Responsibilities") at
[TODO: insert contact].
All complaints will be reviewed and investigated promptly and fairly.

All community leaders are obligated to respect the privacy and security of the
reporter of any incident. We strive to apply this Code of Conduct consistently, but acknowledge that the permissionless and pseudonymous nature of some blockchain interactions may present challenges to enforcement beyond project-controlled platforms. Our focus is on maintaining a healthy environment within the community spaces we manage.

## Enforcement Guidelines

Community leaders will follow these Community Impact Guidelines in determining
the consequences for any action they deem in violation of this Code of Conduct:

### 1. Correction

**Community Impact**: Use of inappropriate language or other behavior deemed
unprofessional or unwelcome in the community.

**Consequence**: A private, written warning from community leaders, providing
clarity around the nature of the violation and an explanation of why the
behavior was inappropriate. A public apology may be requested.

### 2. Warning

**Community Impact**: A violation through a single incident or series of
actions.

**Consequence**: A warning with consequences for continued behavior. No
interaction with the people involved, including unsolicited interaction with
those enforcing the Code of Conduct, for a specified period of time. This
includes avoiding interactions in community spaces as well as external channels
like social media. Violating these terms may lead to a temporary or permanent
ban.

### 3. Temporary Ban

**Community Impact**: A serious violation of community standards, including
sustained inappropriate behavior.

**Consequence**: A temporary ban from any sort of interaction or public
communication with the community on project-managed platforms (e.g., GitHub, Discord) for a specified period of time. No public or
private interaction with the people involved, including unsolicited interaction
with those enforcing the Code of Conduct, is allowed during this period on these platforms.
Violating these terms may lead to a permanent ban. We acknowledge that individuals may attempt to evade such bans using new pseudonymous identities in a permissionless ecosystem; however, we will enforce these consequences to the best of our ability on the platforms we control.

### 4. Permanent Ban

**Community Impact**: Demonstrating a pattern of violation of community
standards, including sustained inappropriate behavior, harassment of an
individual, or aggression toward or disparagement of classes of individuals.

**Consequence**: A permanent ban from any sort of public interaction within the
community on project-managed platforms (e.g., GitHub, Discord). We acknowledge that individuals may attempt to evade such bans using new pseudonymous identities in a permissionless ecosystem; however, we will enforce these consequences to the best of our ability on the platforms we control.

## Attribution

This Code of Conduct is adapted from the [Contributor Covenant][homepage],
version 2.1, available at
[https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/2/1/code_of_conduct.html][v2.1].

Community Impact Guidelines were inspired by
[Mozilla's code of conduct enforcement ladder][Mozilla CoC].

For answers to common questions about this code of conduct, see the FAQ at
[https://www.contributor-covenant.org/faq][FAQ]. Translations are available at
[https://www.contributor-covenant.org/translations][translations].

[homepage]: https://www.contributor-covenant.org
[v2.1]: https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/2/1/code_of_conduct.html
[Mozilla CoC]: https://github.com/mozilla/diversity
[FAQ]: https://www.contributor-covenant.org/faq
[translations]: https://www.contributor-covenant.org/translations
