CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to `nexus-sdk`

Thank you for considering contributing to this project!
The following guidelines help ensure a smooth process for everyone.

## CLA

Contributors are required to sign the [CLA]. This process is handled automatically by the [CLA Assistant].

## Code of Conduct

This project adheres to a [Code of Conduct]. By participating, you are expected to uphold this code.

## How to Contribute

1. **Fork the repository** and create your branch from `main`.
1. **Follow the coding style** used in the project.
1. **Install the pre-commit hook** by running:

   ```bash
   ./.pre-commit/pre-commit --install
   ```

1. **Write clear, concise commit messages.**
1. **Add tests** for any new functionality.
1. **Do not use unsafe Rust code**.
1. **Update documentation** to complement code changes

## Reporting Issues

- Use the [Issue Tracker] to report bugs or suggest enhancements.
- Check if the issue already exists before submitting.
- Provide steps to reproduce, expected vs. actual behavior, and relevant logs or screenshots.

## Pull Request Process

- Open a pull request with a clear description of what it does and why.
- Link to the issue it fixes (if applicable).
- Ensure your branch is up to date with `main`.
- A maintainer will review and may request changes.
- Your PR will be reviewed by maintainers and may be merged after approvals.

## Writing commit messages

- Use the present tense ("Add feature" not "Added feature")
- Use imperative tone ("Add feature" not "Adds feature" or "Adding feature")
- Reference a ticket if applicable.
- Add more context and an explanation for the contribution.

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the same license as the project: [LICENSE].

<!-- List of references -->

[Issue Tracker]: https://github.com/Talus-Network/nexus-sdk/issues
[Code of Conduct]: CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
[LICENSE]: LICENSE.txt
[CLA]: https://gist.github.com/devops-talus/82cafc9752547baf4be140b6db1e8fd6
[CLA Assistant]: https://cla-assistant.io/Talus-Network/nexus-sdk

Commit message:

docs: update contribution guidelines for commit messages

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to `nexus-sdk`

Thank you for considering contributing to this project!
The following guidelines help ensure a smooth process for everyone.

## CLA

Contributors are required to sign the [CLA]. This process is handled automatically by the [CLA Assistant].

## Code of Conduct

This project adheres to a [Code of Conduct]. By participating, you are expected to uphold this code.

## How to Contribute

1. **Fork the repository** and create your branch from `main`.
1. **Follow the coding style** used in the project.
1. **Install the pre-commit hook** by running:

   ```bash
   ./.pre-commit/pre-commit --install
   ```

1. **Write clear, concise commit messages.**
1. **Add tests** for any new functionality.
1. **Do not use unsafe Rust code**.
1. **Update documentation** to complement code changes

## Reporting Issues

- Use the [Issue Tracker] to report bugs or suggest enhancements.
- Check if the issue already exists before submitting.
- Provide steps to reproduce, expected vs. actual behavior, and relevant logs or screenshots.

## Pull Request Process

- Open a pull request with a clear description of what it does and why.
- Link to the issue it fixes (if applicable).
- Ensure your branch is up to date with `main`.
- A maintainer will review and may request changes.
- Your PR will be reviewed by maintainers and may be merged after approvals.

## Writing commit messages

- Use [Conventional Commits] specification for the commit messages
- Use the present tense (e.g., "feat: add command on cli" not "feat: added command on cli")
- Use imperative tone ("add command" not "adds command" or "adding command")
- Reference a ticket if applicable.
- Add more context and an explanation for the contribution.

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the same license as the project: [LICENSE].

<!-- List of references -->

[Issue Tracker]: https://github.com/Talus-Network/nexus-sdk/issues
[Code of Conduct]: CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
[LICENSE]: LICENSE.txt
[CLA]: https://gist.github.com/devops-talus/82cafc9752547baf4be140b6db1e8fd6
[CLA Assistant]: https://cla-assistant.io/Talus-Network/nexus-sdk
[Conventional Commits]: https://www.conventionalcommits.org/
