tools/storage-walrus/README.md, before:

# `xyz.taluslabs.storage.walrus.upload-json`

Standard Nexus Tool that uploads a JSON file to Walrus and returns the blob ID.

## Input

**`json`: [`String`]**

The JSON data to upload.

_opt_ **`publisher_url`: [`Option<String>`]** _default_: [`None`]

The walrus publisher URL.

_opt_ **`aggregator_url`: [`Option<String>`]** _default_: [`None`]

The URL of the Walrus aggregator to upload the JSON to.

_opt_ **`epochs`: [`u64`]** _default_: [`1`]

Number of epochs to store the data.

_opt_ **`send_to_address`: [`Option<String>`]** _default_: [`None`]

Optional address to which the created Blob object should be sent.

## Output Variants & Ports

**`newly_created`**

A new blob was created and uploaded successfully.

- **`newly_created.blob_id`: [`String`]** - The unique identifier for the uploaded blob
- **`newly_created.end_epoch`: [`u64`]** - The epoch at which the blob will expire
- **`newly_created.sui_object_id`: [`String`]** - Sui object ID of the newly created blob

**`already_certified`**

The blob was already certified in the blockchain.

- **`already_certified.blob_id`: [`String`]** - The unique identifier for the blob
- **`already_certified.end_epoch`: [`u64`]** - The epoch at which the blob will expire
- **`already_certified.tx_digest`: [`String`]** - Transaction digest of the certified blob

**`err`**

The blob upload failed.

- **`err.reason`: [`String`]** - A detailed error message describing what went wrong
- **`err.kind`: [`UploadErrorKind`]** - Type of error that occurred
  - Possible kinds:
    - `network` - Error during HTTP requests or network connectivity issues
    - `validation` - Invalid JSON input or data validation failures
- **`err.status_code`: [`Option<u16>`]** - HTTP status code if available (for network errors)

---

# `xyz.taluslabs.storage.walrus.verify-blob@1`

Standard Nexus Tool that verifies a blob in Walrus.

## Input

**`blob_id`: [`String`]**

The ID of the blob to verify.

_opt_ **`aggregator_url`: [`Option<String>`]** _default_: [`None`]

The URL of the Walrus aggregator to verify the blob against.

## Output Variants & Ports

**`ok`**

The blob was verified successfully.

- **`ok.verified`: [`bool`]** - Whether the blob is verified

**`err`**

The blob verification failed.

- **`err.reason`: [`String`]** - A detailed error message describing what went wrong
  - Possible reasons include:
    - Blob not found
    - Network connection errors
    - Server-side errors
    - Timeout errors

---

Commit message:

[nexus-tool] Output design -> Verified ,Unverified , Err structure integrated.

tools/storage-walrus/README.md, after:

# `xyz.taluslabs.storage.walrus.upload-json`

Standard Nexus Tool that uploads a JSON file to Walrus and returns the blob ID.

## Input

**`json`: [`String`]**

The JSON data to upload.

_opt_ **`publisher_url`: [`Option<String>`]** _default_: [`None`]

The walrus publisher URL.

_opt_ **`aggregator_url`: [`Option<String>`]** _default_: [`None`]

The URL of the Walrus aggregator to upload the JSON to.

_opt_ **`epochs`: [`u64`]** _default_: [`1`]

Number of epochs to store the data.

_opt_ **`send_to_address`: [`Option<String>`]** _default_: [`None`]

Optional address to which the created Blob object should be sent.

## Output Variants & Ports

**`newly_created`**

A new blob was created and uploaded successfully.

- **`newly_created.blob_id`: [`String`]** - The unique identifier for the uploaded blob
- **`newly_created.end_epoch`: [`u64`]** - The epoch at which the blob will expire
- **`newly_created.sui_object_id`: [`String`]** - Sui object ID of the newly created blob

**`already_certified`**

The blob was already certified in the blockchain.

- **`already_certified.blob_id`: [`String`]** - The unique identifier for the blob
- **`already_certified.end_epoch`: [`u64`]** - The epoch at which the blob will expire
- **`already_certified.tx_digest`: [`String`]** - Transaction digest of the certified blob

**`err`**

The blob upload failed.

- **`err.reason`: [`String`]** - A detailed error message describing what went wrong
- **`err.kind`: [`UploadErrorKind`]** - Type of error that occurred
  - Possible kinds:
    - `network` - Error during HTTP requests or network connectivity issues
    - `validation` - Invalid JSON input or data validation failures
- **`err.status_code`: [`Option<u16>`]** - HTTP status code if available (for network errors)

---

# `xyz.taluslabs.storage.walrus.verify-blob@1`

Standard Nexus Tool that verifies a blob in Walrus.

## Input

**`blob_id`: [`String`]**

The ID of the blob to verify.

_opt_ **`aggregator_url`: [`Option<String>`]** _default_: [`None`]

The URL of the Walrus aggregator to verify the blob against.

## Output Variants & Ports

**`verified`**

The blob exists and is verified.

- **`verified.blob_id`: [`String`]** - The ID of the verified blob

**`un_verified`**

The blob does not exist or could not be verified.

- **`un_verified.blob_id`: [`String`]** - The ID of the unverified blob

**`err`**

An error occurred during verification.

- **`err.reason`: [`String`]** - A detailed error message describing what went wrong
- **`err.kind`: [`UploadErrorKind`]** - Type of error that occurred
  - Possible kinds:
    - `server` - Server-side errors during verification
- **`err.status_code`: [`Option<u16>`]** - HTTP status code if available (for API errors)

---
